The Last Lecture:

What affected you the most? 
Overall, I appreciated his optimism and his acceptance of circumstances. At the beginning of his lecture he spoke about how we all get dealt cards in our life. While I think that we are in control of our actions and some things,
there is much that occurs that is out of our control. For example, his pancreatic cancer. While unhealthy eating and lifestyle choices can increase the odds of cancer (personal choices), healthy people are still able to get 
cancer. Even if we "do the right things", disaster can still strike. What I appreciated about Randy was his acceptance of these facts. He understands that we can control what we can control and we can't control what we can't
control. So, excessive thought or mourning about what is outside of our control is not helpful. I'm sure he was destroyed when he received the news about the tumors that were growing inside of him. I'm sure he was destroyed when
he learned that he would only have so much time left with his wife and kids. Randy was faced with a choice in the midst of undesirable circumstances. He could have taken the easier route and gotten rather bitter with the world
and his illness, becoming sour to those around him. Or, he could take the road less traveled and stay positive, joyful, and encouraging during the time he had left. We know which route he took and how impactful his decision was
on those around him. Randy was evidently very aware of how important it was for him to control what he could control, namely his attitude about the whole situation. I hope that myself and all of us can be more in tuned with
the reality of our lives. I hope we take ownership of what we can control and not dwell on circumstances that we cannot impact. 

Did you identify with any of his messages?
I liked and agreed with some of Randy's points about the brick walls. I do think that brick walls can be placed in our path in order for us to persevere and grow our ability to endure. However, I think that sometimes when we are
pursuing a goal or a dream and continuously hit brick walls, it might be a sign that we aren't meant to go down that path. I believe that God has a path for us all, and the way to determine if a brick wall is one that you should
persevere through is if the path is leading towards God. 

Another point I liked from Randy's lecture was the "bring something of value to the table" principle. I think that, too often, we are consumers in the environments we are a part of. Whether we are a part of a team, group of
friends, classroom, organization, etc, we often seek for value to be handed to us. We expect that the professor teaches in a way that we appreciate and fosters our learning. We expect our leaders to shoulder all the burden for
the quality of a space. In reality, the leader of a group or space can only control so much. If a professor does a ton of prep work, comes up with engaging activities, and brings good energy to a class but the students show up
with bad attitudes, the class will not be fun for anyone. We must all take ownership for what we can control. If we don't like how a space or group is being operated, we should make a change. And I think what's most important of
all is to consistently show up with a joyful and grateful attitude. People who are joyful are fun to be around and that is incredibly valuable. 
